As teenagers, it is in our nature to be a bit more careless than adults and this can cause  us to be less mindful of our things which results in them being lost. There will always be  moments of anxiety and panic upon losing something valuable and its impact increases  as its financial or sentimental value increases. The more beloved the item, the greater the  feeling of remorse. Personally I have lost numerous items and have faced the dire  consequences of reprimands and inconveniences but none would compare to losing the  gift my old and close friend, John, gave before he parted ways to pursue his education in  arts in London.

The item was a portrait of us with his signature on the back of it with ‘your partner in crime’  written on the back. He had given it to me in a restaurant on the day he was leaving. It  was a picture of us playing football as a dynamic duo with us at the centre of attention.  Upon closer inspection, I realized that the portrait was handmade. The intricate weaving  of his pen, almost as if it was guiding him, the soft bristles of his bush portraying grass,  and the fine and exquisite detail of our figure could be easily viewed on the painting. This  is definitely his best work so far. Even the frame was sturdy along with its secure hinges  and characteristic mahogany wood fragrance would flood my brain with dopamine every  single time.

Losing this portrait would leave me completely shattered due to the sheer amount of effort  he put into it. He is a very talented artist but would only put in effort for projects of great  importance while doing the others without any effort. The fact that he spent money on the  frame, effort beautiful and exquisite painting and time for preparing it made me feel  important to him. Losing this gift would be equivalent to an insult to our friendship. It would  crush me knowing how something so beautiful could be lost in the world and slowly be a  symbol of our friendship fading away. How he dedicated a whole artwork to me would  always refresh the precious memories we had together and this was the only evidence of  our close friendship. 

Another reason this portrait is dear to me is that it is the only gift from him. We would  never exchange gifts but rather just enjoy the company of one another. However, it is now  impossible as he is overseas, so it is effortless for me to take a trip down memory lane  just by visiting the drawer it is safely nested within. Without it, it would be difficult for me  to have any memory of him. It is the only thing I turn to for tranquility. It is also inevitable  for us to be occupied with our studies and hence calls and messages get returned less  and less and we slowly started to drift aprt. Nevertheless, the portrait is the only thing  kindling the flame of our friendship, hence it is very much treasured by me and I will not  choose to part with it.
 
As we grow, we start to have a lot more responsibilities and that can be difficult to cope  with at times. The issue with it is that people mistake having less contact means that the  relationship or friendship is not important anymore. Nevertheless, the bond I formed with  John helps me to understand that; so does his gift. His one and final tribute to our  friendship before facing life was flawlessly executed by that painting. Hence it would kill  me to lose it. Maybe one day I could gift him with an equally meaningful present once we  reunite. 
