From Mozart and Beethoven to our humanoid ancestors, music has always been an  integral part of life. It remains unknown which part of the brain processes and appreciates  music, and at which point in the evolutionary line did animals obtain this trait, but we listen  to all types of music day in and day out as if it were normal. Music comes naturally to  humans. It has existed in our culture for millenia, and perhaps even before the dawn of  language. Music is shrouded in mystery, and yet we cannot seem to do without it. So  what would the world be like if we had no music? Personally, I feel that the world would  be very monotonous without it. 
The first reason is emotion. Human emotions are closely linked to music. They can be  altered and manipulated through different beats, rhythms and tunes. When we have a  bad day at work or school, listening to an upbeat song tends to get us in a more cheerful  mood when we get home. Certain types of music make us feel melancholic, and some  make us emotionally charged. Like chocolate and gaming, listening to happy music  makes the brain secrete dopamine, which in turn makes us happy. This could explain the  unanimous use of music in celebration and courtship across disjointed cultures around  the globe. Without music, our lives would become increasingly devoid of emotion, whether 

positive or negative. We would become akin to machines, simply living to continuously  undergo the same circle of depressing reality. Without the spice of music in human  culture, life would become very bland. 
Apart from the visual arts, music is inseparable from other aspects of human arts. In fact,  the other arts, such as performance arts, were derived from music. The rhythm of music  injects movement into our muscles. If a person were to attempt to block out music and  move independently with a separate rhythm, they would find it impossible - the body  unconsciously matches its movements to external stimuli. Combined with the emotions  conveyed by tunes and notes, this creates an urge to dance and perform. Different types  of music give rise to different types of dance. The slow pace of old western classics gave  rise to the graceful art of ballet. Fast paced but harmonious music give us the salsa. Even  modern music, such as Electronic Dance Music - infested K-pop songs have compelled  people to make cringey tiktoks of themselves making spastic movements similar to those  of someone having a seizure. Even acting, which has its roots in drama, is intertwined  with music to create certain emotions and atmospheres for the pleasure of the audience.  Without music, all of these arts would not sparkle, making life even more dull. 
Music also has a capacity to inspire. Musical geniuses, such as Mozart and Bach, or even  the legendary Beethoven, who mastered the piano though he was deaf, all got inspiration  in their works. This essence of creativity was translated to musical masterpieces which  could shake people to their core. Bach’s work was known to give chills to those who heard  it, and Mozart’s symphonies never failed to mesmerize. Unlike modern mainstream  music, which is mostly a low quality mish-mash of random beats, tunes and  EDM(intensifying kpop noises), the music made by these people were born of pure  creativity. Hence, this music not only move us with emotion, but it also gives us the spark  of creativity or innovation we sometimes need to survive or thrive. Therefore, without  music, we would be devoid of creativity and the world will be colourless and simply lack  vitality.

All in all, music has been deeply interconnected with human culture throughout the ages,  and for good reason. Music is linked to our emotions and creativity, and is the base for  nearly all other aspects of human cultures. Music is incredibly important to people in a  society, and without it, society would be nothing other than a robot, simply functioning for  the sake of functioning. 
