Music has followed humanity through the ages. From the orchestrated symphonies of  Beethoven and Mozart to the modern pop songs of today, music spans a wide range of 

purposes. With this comes the question: would the world be a much duller place without  the existence of music? Personally, I feel that it would be very true. 
Music to some people is an avenue to express their emotions. Very often, the lyrics in a  song are expressive and reflect the author’s state of mind. Singing these lyrics can be a  way to express one’s thoughts indirectly. With the wide variety of songs to choose from  over the internet, people are able to release their frustration by writing, singing or even  listening to music that suits the occasion, thus helping them understand their feelings and  maybe sharing them with other people. With the ability to express emotions through  music, the world becomes vibrant with diverse thoughts and feelings. 
Music can also help influence people’s emotions to either help them relax or get excited  depending on the situation. As humans, we are all rhythmic beings. Our heart beat follows  a rhythm that dictates the stress levels in our body by making a comfortable environment  to relax in, minimising any stress that may be harmful either physically or emotionally. On  the other hand, fast and upbeat songs tend to promote activity by having energetic  rhythms to induce a state of complete focus. In this state, the human brain is energised  and prepared to take on challenges better. With music being able to influence its listeners'  state of mind, people can use it to guide them through their daily activities. In fact, it can  help them cope with their daily challenges. It will help them to view life differently and that  it is more than coping with the mundane problems of the world. The world could instead  be viewed as colourful due to the varied challenges they have to face in life.  
However, some may argue that music can be made to evoke dull feelings like  hopelessness and depression through their lyrics, thus making the world darker rather  than brighter. What is more is that these songs are starting to become more prevalent in  today’s society. Despite that, it must be acknowledged that songs aim for a more  atmospheric effect, enhancing listeners’ attitudes about their environment. While such  songs could influence them to view the world pessimistically, it really depends on the listeners and on how they choose to counteract such negative emotions that may ruin 

moods. The listeners at some point have the choice to not continue to listen to such music  and seek ways to deal with such negative messages or emotions.  
To conclude, music has a connection to emotion, affecting the mood of its listeners’ and  reflecting that of its writers. Without it, a valuable outlet of expression is lost and the world  would be dull and silent. These sounds have become a staple of human life, and will last  for time to come. 
