Happiness is a feeling that everyone has felt at some point in their life. Whether it be felt  from enjoying and laughing over a simple joke, or from the satisfaction of achieving one’s  long-held aspirations, happiness certainly comes from many different reasons. However, 

what many people find difficult is to retain that joy as one’s emotions never stay at a  plateau. Nevertheless, why is it so essential to remain happy? The main reason is that  happiness plays a key factor on whether a person is healthy, as it determines one’s  lifestyle and well-being. I agree that a happy person is a healthy person.  
A happy person is a healthy person as he is usually an optimistic person, as they bear a  positive mindset and outlook towards life. When one feels joyful, all worries and stress in  his life instantly fades away as one focuses on the positive aspects of life rather than all  the dull and negative ones. This reduces the tension and pressure built up in the person  as he is often expected to fulfill multiple demands every day in his life, which can take a  toll on his body. As students, not only are there high expectations of us, but there are also  daily struggles that we have to face due to our hectic schedule in school. A student who  constantly pays attention to such negatives in life, and never looks at the positives right  in front of them is not happy as all the attention on the negative aspects of his life has  affected his mental health. In serious cases, this could lead to depression, loss in weight  and even a weaker immune system. They would never be able to experience pleasure  and satisfaction in life, which causes their body and mind to be in perpetual agony. In  contrast, one who is happy knows how to be optimistic, and despite the setbacks in life,  will never take such a thing too personally to heart which instead benefits their mental  health. This in turn also boosts their physical health. 
Moreover, a happy person tends to look into his daily lifestyle. He will ensure that he is fit  and healthy and will make an effort to do so as this will improve his general health and  well-being. It is common for a happy person to maintain a healthy and active lifestyle, as  fitness is proven to be a telltale sign of whether one is contented with his life. A person  who is in constant discontent tends to not be prudent with his lifestyle, as he does not  mind or care about how his future looks like. This is usually because he feels that his life  is pointless, and hence decides to ignore his health. Many who are unhappy with life are  thus often seen indulging in unhealthy foods and living a sedentary lifestyle, which  adversely affects their physical health. Those who are happy, on the other hand, will 

always plan and try their best to exercise and eat healthily, putting in the time and effort to remain as healthy individuals. 
Proponents of the counterargument often oppose the notion that a happy person is a  healthy person and claim that happiness is not linked or proportionate to health. Though  some happy people may not be entirely physically healthy, yet in terms of their mental  health, they undoubtedly are and they are happy. There could be those who are sick and  fighting against a life-threatening disease yet they still remain optimistic and are contented  with life. However, this group of people who remain contented in the face of adversity are  a minority. The majority will tend to give up on being happy once they face challenges in  life. Moreover, for those who are happy and do not necessarily take care of his physical  health as they do not exercise nor eat healthily all the time, it is the mindset that these  happy people have that matters the most. With a positive and optimistic attitude, they can  lead a physically healthy lifestyle without a problem as they can easily commit to leading  a healthy lifestyle without being discouraged with doing so. 
To conclude, it is essential to discover ways to become a happy person, as happiness is  truly beneficial to our overall health, physically and most definitely mentally. Happiness  determines one’s spirit and mindset, which goes a long way to ensure that any ambition  can be achieved like maintaining one’s health. Being healthy is certainly not an easy feat,  but one can consider being happy as a shortcut as it is the first stepping stone which can  help one vastly in their journey to being healthy! 
