From the Primary School Leaving Examination(PSLE) to our final university exam, there certainly is no shortage of life-defining tests. They determine our career, our income and even the respect given to us by our parents. Hence, understandably, many have forgotten the joy of learning, equating education to misery and stress. However, enjoying the process of learning allows us to make better life choices, be more motivated to study and improve our mental health than learning for the sole purpose of acing exams.

Firstly, the joy of learning allows students to discover their passion and pick the right career choice. As many from the medical or legal fields will tell you, many new graduates choose their career paths purely based on the competitiveness of the university course or were pressured by their parents to choose a prestigious and well-paying career path. Why waste your perfect score to obtain a degree that anyone can get? However, this mentality creates unpassionate and regretful lawyers and doctors who are disinterested in the subject matter of their jobs. This mess, caused by the fact that many view learning as a means to a perfect score, can be prevented by allowing students to rediscover their passions and placing less emphasis on examinations, allowing them to pick courses based on their passions, not scores. Therefore, allowing them to have a much more fulfilling career.

Moreover, making the learning process more enjoyable will make students more motivated to study than those who are learning just to get good grades. Studying for 8 hours a day certainly takes a toll on many students. Studying for something that they despise and feel is pointless is even worse. By allowing students to study what they are most passionate about, these intolerable study sessions will be much more bearable and even enjoyable, hence, allowing students to study more and harder. Therefore, emphasis on enjoying the study process over exams will produce much better examination results.

However, many claim that since these exams are so important and life-changing that all other aspects of education, including enjoyment, must be sacrificed in the name of it. They cite cases where top students get into good degree programs and subsequently high-paying jobs, while those who did not do so well were left with less desirable jobs and were disgraced by their family. However, it is precisely because of the paramount importance of these examinations that much more emphasis is needed to be placed on the joy of learning. Cases of suicides often skyrocket after major national exams. When education is only about exams, failing them may make their whole education feel pointless and wasted. Many will feel that they are worthless.  By emphasising the importance of enjoying what you study, students may feel that education is about what you learn and not how you did for the exam. Therefore, the importance placed on these examinations, is exactly why we must prioritise the joy of learning.

In conclusion, although exams are undeniably important, we must emphasise enjoying the journey, not overly emphasising on the destination. For this reason, we must reduce the importance placed on good exam results, so that students and adults will have a much more fulfilling life.
