
In 2008, China hosted the 2008 Beijing Olympic shpwcasing to the world a new and modern China farcry from the Maoist China only a few decades ago. The Beijinmg Metro was doubled in size and a new air[port terminal was constructed. Investors flocked in and China experienced one of the fastest economic growth for any developing country there after. For some, it may seem that prestige and glory and economic benefits may become free of charge, but this is unlikely the case. For most, countries, they will face increased international scrutiny and a heavy financial burden and abandoned or under-used facilities and infrastructure.

For many countries, being in the spotlight on world stage may seem like a priceless position. Indeed countries like China were able to change their global image within a few months through friendly sporting mascots and catchy songs that present to the world a friendly and cooperative China. However, the world a friendly and cooperative China. However, for many countries this may be a double-edged sword as journalists and activists may make use of the increased attention to raise awareness pomn ossies in the country. In the 2018 Brazil World Cup, journalists highlighted how the highway between the airport and stadium were surrounded with noise blockers to prevent visitors to see the extensive slums in the city, with only transparent noise blockers placed convenientlyat locations where newly-built schools and other facilities were made. This eventually lead to global condemnation and certainly did not Brazil look better in the eyes of the global community, hence, the increased attention put on the country often time brings more harm than good.

Most glaringly, the costs of building stadiums and infrastructure for the event must be considered. Even for oil-rich and prosperous countries like Qatar, the hosting of sporting events may put an  unnecessary strain on the budget. In Qatar in preparation for the 2022 World Cup a dozen stadiums had to be built and a new district of the city constructed for the event. Tens of thousands of migrant workers had to be imported and many died during the constriction. With all this, one must start and think from the event if this is all worth it, especially when tourist dollars from the event pales in comparison to just the financial cost of hosting such an event. Therefore it is nothing to be ignored.
