From the brands of snacks in your local grocery store to the endless rows of clothes stores
in mega shopping centers, there has never been a scarcity of choices in the 21st century.
Compare that to the rest of human history whereby the only food you consumed was from
your small subsistence farms and the clothes you wore were knitted by yourself. It is
therefore no wonder why people will start thinking about the effects of this consumer
culture. Although the excess in options has caused corporations to improve their products
and consumers selecting things more specific to their needs, it has also harmed the
environment and caused excessive spending.

Firstly, more choices for consumers means that companies have to compete for their
products to be selected by consumers. In the United States, after regulations were
created to allow many airlines to fly the same routes, the price of airline tickets was more
than halved. This was because before the rule, companies had a monopoly on a route
and could charge absurd prices. However, after the law, companies would have to
compete by lowering prices, thus benefitting the consumer in the long run. This effect has
also allowed for lower prices and better quality products such as electric cars. More
choices therefore allow consumers to enjoy better and cheaper products because of
competition.

Moreover, an increase in the variety of products has allowed shoppers to buy the products
that match best their needs. The advent of new models of cars such as SUVs has
benefitted families, while RVs have benefitted those who enjoy the outdoors. This is
because families might want more seats in their car, while a camper might want a
bathroom in theirs. Hence, the variety of products has allowed companies to better fulfill
the specific needs of consumers.


Nevertheless, the variety of choices has created reckless spending habits in shoppers.
Fast fashion brands like H&M churn out new clothing choices weekly to keep up with the
latest fashion craze. Consumers are thus constantly changing their wardrobe with some
clothes being worn once or not at all. This has caused a dent in people’s wallets,
especially those who are younger with less purchasing power, which will likely thwart any
plans of saving for retirement. Therefore the plethora of choices in items shoppers buy
could financially cripple many shoppers.

In addition, the copious choices has caused much damage to the environment. From
Greek feta cheese to Mexican avocados, most products are transported for thousands of
kilometers, even though there are similar products made locally. This means that giant oil
tankers must burn fuel and release metric tonnes of carbon dioxide to transport a variety
of food to the shoppers. This consumer culture has thus exacerbated climate change and
global warming. Shoppers may not feel such impacts immediately, but they will certainly
feel the impact in the long run.

In conclusion, choices have certainly benefitted the consumers with better and more
suitable products at more affordable prices. Needless to say, this is welcomed by
consumers. However, the environmental and economic effects of the consumer culture is
of paramount importance and needs to be addressed urgently. Reckless spending by
consumers should be curbed and world organisations could enact laws and create
guidelines to control the damage on the environment.