Everyone has been extremely troubled during some time of their life. Money, family
issues, fights, everyone has definitely been very unhappy about something. Of course, during
the period of distress, people would definitely like to forget all of their problems. However, it can
be argued whether actually forgetting about the problems will have a negative effect in the long
run.
I agree that not acknowledging a problem does bring peace to the mind. It is definitely
beneficial to your mental health if you keep yourself happy and joyful. By keeping yourself in a
positive mood, it is proven that your body will function better and your physical health will
improve. For example, if a person forgets all the bad things in the past, they can live their life in
the present to the fullest. This encourages happiness and makes them healthier, both physically
and mentally. Moreover, you can choose to forgive and forget a rivalry you once had with
members of your family or your friends, so you can come to terms with them. This will calm your
anger and make you more at peace, and reduce the mental health strain.
However, forgetting about problems does not actually solve them. Debts cannot be
repaid just by forgetting about it. Rivalry cannot be calmed when only one side chooses to
forgive. The major issues a person faces in their life are unlikely to be solvable just by trying to
forget about it. On the other hand, it is arguably better to accept the problems and try to figure a
way to solve them. By thinking of a solution, you are effectively utilizing precious time. The
quicker you solve a problem, the less time you are mentally plagued by it.
Another reason why forgetting the obstacles in life is not a good idea is because some
problems are extremely difficult to forget. Problems such as apprehensive feelings about
upcoming tests or job interviews are very difficult to forget because they are constantly
approaching. Other vivid memories such as some deep regrets or missed opportunities are also
very difficult to forget, as you know that what has passed cannot be fixed. Thus, just “forgetting”
the problems simply is not practical. Some people go to the extent of indulging in bad activities
such as drinking, which takes a further toll on your physical health on top of the mental health
strain and only brings harm. Therefore, simply facing your problems or consulting others,
especially a therapist, is a better option.
While the proverb “Ignorance is Bliss” may be true, it is only best utilized for minor
problems such as small, forgivable conflicts. However, when faced with a serious problem that
requires immediate attention, instead of trying to distract themselves from those things, they
should try to courageously face the problem and think of a solution. If they fail, they should seek
help from others. Some problems are never meant to be solved alone.