As I strode quickly from the summer heat of outdoor Singapore into a
gigantic shopping mall in the middle of Orchard Road, all my hair suddenly
stood on end when I came into contact with the frigid air conditioning of the
mall. Around me, people walked in and out of the mall like waves, to the
point that they made me dizzy. Lively chatter resonated from the food stalls
lining the perimeter of the first floor of the mall. As I snapped out of my
daze, I suddenly remembered what I was here for: to buy myself some
workbooks to practice for my O-Level examinations.
I stepped onto the escalator to visit a bookstore on the third floor of
the shopping mall. Being dissatisfied with the slow speed of the escalator, I
marched up like I was walking on normal stairs. On the second floor of the
mall, instead of restaurants, shops selling furniture and household items
filled my entire vicinity. From pots and pans, to large sofas, to even the
smallest needles and threads, there were shops selling everything one
could ever want for their home! Despite not looking for anything particular, I
still took a stroll around the floor to admire the various colors and patterns
that the shopkeepers decorated their stores with. Green and Brown were
colors expressing comfort and serendipity, which were utilized by stores
selling pillows, beds, and sofas, while grey and black are used by shops
selling metalware to suggest their products’ durability.
As I moved onto the third floor, I was surprised, as this floor was
much smaller than the previous two. Another surprising aspect was that
this floor did not contain any shops that sell physical products. All the
establishments here sold services. To my left was a travel agency so large
I thought it took up over half the floor’s worth of space! Above the shop was
a giant display sign with the name “WORLD WIDE WHEE!” emblazoned on
it. There was also a big, anthropomorphic globe with giant googly eyes on
it, which I presume was the company’s mascot.
The fourth floor mostly had no shops that sell goods either. However,
it was filled to the brim with tuition centres. Mathematics, Sciences, English,
and even Humanities were taught in one centre or the other on the floor.
Students all the way from primary school to post-graduates flock here to
increase their knowledge to increase their opportunities and brighten their
future. I wandered around looking for the bookstore that my friends
recommended to me; it did not take long, as the bookstore was brightly
colored red. As I stepped in, I was surprised by the sheer amount and
variety of products this place had to offer. Despite being a bookstore, this
place also sold many other products, such as utensils, snacks, and even
video games! I was overwhelmed by the volume of products, so I had to
ask the staff to help me locate the workbooks I need.

I was relieved that I was able to buy the workbooks that will help me
ace my O-Level examinations before they were sold out. I took the
escalator back down, and got to relive my journey of when I ascended this
place once again. I stepped out the mall with satisfaction-only to
immediately experience Singapore’s blazing summer heat again, and
wishing I could stay in the mall for longer.