Have you ever made such a huge mistake to the point that you had no idea how to fix it? Almost
everyone has made grievous mistakes at some point in their lives, too. However, while most
people merely escape and hide away from the problems and repercussions, some people stand
out from others by doing their best to make amends for their mistakes. These people are people
who become successful later in life. Why? They have learnt to respond wisely to the mistakes
they have knowingly and unknowingly made.
Learning to respond to making a mistake is indeed an essential part to becoming
successful. This is because by responding to such mistakes, one will most likely never make the
same mistake again. Many successful businessmen such as Elon Musk, Jeff Bezos and Mark
Zuckerberg have all made mistakes that caused a sharp drop in their market share and
company value. However, they persevered and made amends. This caused their companies
Tesla, Amazon and Meta to remain as the most successful companies with the highest market
shares today, and they would likely remain successful as they have learned from their mistakes.
By learning to respond to their mistakes, one can also obtain knowledge and skill which
can be used to avoid making other mistakes in the future. For example, by making an
unsuccessful startup company, one may use the knowledge and experience obtained from the
failure to avoid making the same mistakes again, such as by changing the target consumers
and marketing strategies. Therefore, learning to respond to making a mistake is an essential
part to becoming successful.
However, merely learning to respond when making a mistake is not enough for a person
to achieve success. This is because grievous mistakes like bad investments may cause a
company so much damage to the point that they might have to file for bankruptcy and go back
to square one. Therefore, we must also learn to take precautions by educating ourselves about
the practice we are going to be involved in, so as to minimize the chances of making mistakes.
An example is multi-billionaire investor Warren Buffet, who always studies and scrutinizes the
companies he is interested in before he invests in them. Thus, not only must one quickly
respond to their mistakes, one must also try their best to avoid making such mistakes in the first
place if they are preventable.
It is part of human nature for people to make mistakes-nobody is perfect. However, what
separates successful people from those that are unsuccessful is the willingness to
wholeheartedly respond to the mistakes they have made, and learn from them. However, life
does not always give second chances. Hence, to be successful, not only must one vigilantly
respond to their mistakes, but they must also be cautious to avoid making preventable mistakes
in the first place.